today the day of knowledge the start of
the school year but of course it's not
just the start of a new school year for
Russian students but also for students
from abroad let's get a report now on
how they're experiencing their student
life in Russia
here's Lindsay France many of the
foreign students starting the campus
these days aren't exchange students
they're xpath students they pay their
own way without the partnership of
another university I came to Russia
because now with the globalization and
better business opportunities and in the
same way
Russians are learning Spanish many
Spanish businessmen are learning Russian
it's vital for a business to do that
obviously I grew up on a new information
about Russia from the old days but I was
surprised how more than really Russia is
I mean I think you've got to be crazy at
my age and 23 years old to be having
just graduated and just to sit in your
home with your parents I think you've
got to get out try new things
you're young as we discussed you know I
see myself here 10-15 years maybe
forever my parents will kill me of
saying this but it's something I would
love to do really others are here as a
product of a crisis hit economy like say
Greece for example yeah the situation is
difficult the things are coming Wars and
Wars but I came here for the Russian
lessons because I feel like many Russian
tourists in Greece many Russian
businessman so I feel that doing that
will help load the Larry
Shah Smith has headed this Center for
international education for 27 years in
that time he has seen changes he never
expected to see in this country now
students came here during the Soviet
Union to study right but in your time
here how has it changed from the types
of students coming in and their
expectation of the program that's right
different countries so in this is Sochi
and we used to teach
people from northern Korea from Vietnam
from Cuba nowadays the geography has
changed so we teach a lot of Americans
Japanese Europeans what are the
different motivations for students
coming in learning now and students
coming in learning 20-25 years ago is it
more of a business aspect so definitely
25 years ago very few came for business
nowadays mostly most of the students
they come because they they helped us to
find job in Russia or in their country
countries but somehow connected to
Russia is that funny to you that
students are now coming to Russia to
find the jobs and take part in the
economy 10 years ago it was quite quite
strange yet because we had to adjust we
had to change programs who have to
change textbooks everything so for some
of the students many of them already
seasoned professionals finding a good
fit in Russia hasn't come easy the word
for me because I was thinking of moving
here working here but I was asking so
many people about how the situation is
their unemployment is their life here
good but I have heard so many opinions
that I don't have a clear picture yet in
every country needs foreign students
they explore the culture they will learn
the language and of course we continue a
relationship with them after return home
there will be our friends they will be
our partners education is a
billion-dollar market therefore it's in
the Russian interest to have foreigners
studying in our universities the cash
flow goes straight into the Russian
Federation budget business and languages
may contribute a large part of that but
so do the arts 250 foreigners are
studying at the Moscow Conservatory
including yet another Colombian student
Diego Franco the tradition
school of piano forints it's very a big
influence and the most important
teachers we have there in Colombia
usually has something to do with rush
they're Russians or they have study here
so for this is like the source for Cris
chalice it's a source of a new future I
will continue my recent studies and we
will search for a job that has a
connection with Russian people because I
like the Russian culture like the
Russian people so probably a job in this
field and fresh off the plane after a
10-hour flight japan has delivered a
fresh batch of students ready to start
the fall term most japanese doesn't know
and don't know about the russian culture
and people so much in japan it is said
that Russia and Russia will be large in
one of the most largest countries and in
business and so Japanese have to learn
Russian three weeks may not be enough to
make them fluent in Tchaikovsky or
Tolstoy but it's a start down a path of
Education unheard of just 20 years ago
Lindsay France primetime Russia arty
you